https://www.pcicomplianceguide.org/faq/

https://www.pcisecuritystandards.org/document_library/

Q15: What are the penalties for non-compliance?
A: The payment brands may, at their discretion, fine an acquiring bank $5,000 to $100,000 per month for PCI compliance
violations. The banks will most likely pass this fine along until it eventually hits the merchant. Furthermore,
the bank will also most likely either terminate your relationship or increase transaction fees.
Penalties are not openly discussed nor widely publicized, but they can be catastrophic to a small business. It is
important to be familiar with your merchant account agreement, which should outline your exposure.

Q16: What is defined as ‘cardholder data’?
A: The PCI Security Standards Council (SSC) defines ‘cardholder data’ as the full Primary Account Number (PAN) or the
full PAN along with any of the following elements:

Cardholder name
Expiration date
Service code
Sensitive Authentication Data, which must also be protected, includes full magnetic stripe data, CAV2, CVC2, CVV2,
CID, PINs, PIN blocks and more.

Q17: What is the definition of ‘merchant’?
A: For the purposes of the PCI DSS, a merchant is defined as any entity that accepts payment cards bearing the logos of
any of the five members of PCI SSC (American Express, Discover, JCB, MasterCard or Visa) as payment for goods and/or
services.

Q18: What constitutes a Service Provider?
A: The PCI SSC defines a Service Provider this way:
“Business entity that is not a payment brand, directly involved in the processing, storage, or transmission of
cardholder data. This also includes companies that provide services that control or could impact the security of
cardholder data.” (Source: www.pcisecuritystandards.org)

Q26: What if my business refuses to cooperate?
A: PCI is not, in itself, a law. The standard was created by the major card brands Visa, MasterCard, Discover,
AMEX and JCB. At their acquirers’/service providers’ discretion, merchants that do not comply with PCI DSS may be
subject to fines, card replacement costs, costly forensic audits, brand damage, etc., should a breach event occur.

Q29: Do states have laws requiring data breach notifications to the affected parties?
A: Absolutely. California is the catalyst for reporting data breaches to affected parties. The state implemented its
breach notification law in 2003, and now nearly every state has a similar law in place.

As of April 12, 2017, NCSL.org reports: Forty-eight states, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico and the
Virgin Islands have enacted legislation requiring private, governmental or educational entities to notify individuals
of security breaches of information involving personally identifiable information.